---
header: Real World Cases in Scientific Computing  (CS 199)
---

## Description:

In this class, students will work in teams brainstorming the solution and setup
of real world applications of numerical methods in scientific and engineering problems.
These activities will be offered through guided worksheets,
in which students will have the opportunity to develop and improve skills
such as problem solving, effective teamwork and critical thinking. Co-requisite: CS 357.



## Grading Policies

### Grade Breakdown

Your grade is composed of the following components:

Percentage | Component
---------- | ------------------
50%        | Participation
30%        | Attendance
20%        | PL group project

### Grading Scale

All your grade components will be added up with the percentage
weights indicated and result in a single number. This number will
determine your letter grade, according to the following scales:

Grade  | Point Range
------ |------------
A+     | [97, 100)
A      | [93, 97)
A-     | [90, 93)
B+     | [87, 90)
B      | [83, 87)
B-     | [80, 83)
C+     | [77, 80)
C      | [73, 77)
C-     | [70, 73)
D+     | [67, 70)
D      | [63, 67)
D-     | [60, 63)



## Participation

  You should be working with your group mates during the entire 50 minutes. You will get your 50%
  participation points if you are on-task and making progress. If you are frequently off-task, and do not change
  your behavior after warning, you will receive 0% for the participation component of your grade.


## Attendance

  Percentage | Component
  ---------- | ------------------
  100%       | attend at least 12 classes
  80%        | 10-12
  65%        | 8-10
  50%        | 6-8
  0%         | less than 6

  I will collect the attendance using iclickers, about 10 minutes after the start of the class. Make sure
  to not arrive late, otherwise you will not get credit for that class.


## PrairieLearn group project

  You will develop an activity similar to the ones we are doing in this discussion section using PrairieLearn.
  At the end of the semester, you will present your work to the rest of the class. Presentations
  should be 10 minutes long and will be scheduled on December 5th and 12th.

  To get full points, you will need to attend your presentation day and show that your group put reasonable effort
  into the project.



## Piazza

  We will be using Piazza for communication. The course staff will post
  important announcements on Piazza and it is your responsibility to
  monitor Piazza for these announcements.
  If you have a question or a concern, please
  post it on Piazza.  Most questions can be posted publicly.  However,
  if you are asking a question about your grades specifically or some
  other private matter, you may post the question/note privately.
  Specifically, do not post answers (answers, plots, code etc.)
  publicly on Piazza.

  Please do not email the course staff, but post on Piazza instead.
  This is both to assist other students who may have similar questions
  and to ensure you receive the fastest response possible by making it
  visible to the entire course staff.

  We will use the same Piazza website for CS 357. Make sure to add the tag/folder cs199.

## Absences

  1.  Excuses from assessments will only be given in the following circumstances:

      A.  Illness

      B.  Personal crisis (e.g. car accident, required court appearance,
          death of a close relative).

      C.  Required attendance at an official UIUC activity (e.g. varsity
          athletics, band concert).

  2.  In all cases you must fill out the
      [excused absence request form](https://forms.illinois.edu/sec/3712618)
      and upload the appropriate documenation.

  3.  In cases (A) or (B) an official excuse letter from the
      [(Dean on Duty)](http://odos.illinois.edu/community-of-care/student-assistance-center/#dean-on-duty)
      must be uploaded with the form within 2 weeks of the due date
      of the missed assessment, no later than reading day. In cases of extended
      or unusual illness, late submission of excuse documentation will be
      considered.

  4.  In case (C) an official letter from the designated university official
      must be uploaded at least one week prior to
      the due date of the missed assessment.

  5.  Notwithstanding the above, at your professor's discretion you may be
      required to make up any excused work or attend substitute instruction
      or assessment.


## Registration

  You must be registered in CS 357 in order to be able to attend this class.

## Accommodations

  If you have accommodations identified by the Division of
  Rehabilitation-Education Services (DRES), please post a
  private note on Piazza with your DRES LOA.



## Academic Integrity

  Academic integrity, harassment, and discrimination: Academic integrity
  infractions, harassment, and discrimination of any kind will not be
  tolerated. See the University's Student Code, [Article 1, Part
  4](https://studentcode.illinois.edu/article1/part4/1-401/).  Please
  see the [Students’ Quick Reference Guide to Academic
  Integrity](https://provost.illinois.edu/policies/policies/academic-integrity/students-quick-reference-guide-to-academic-integrity/)
  for more details.

  Please see the departmental
  [Honor Code](https://cs.illinois.edu/academics/honor-code)
  for details on integrity and procedures.
